# 2016 Reviewed

I started this blog in January 2016 and I have managed to maintain
it posting an average of just over once a month. A small
achievement. Previous attempts have fallen by the wayside sooner or
been much more sporadic.

All sorts of crap happened this year and I expect it'll be well
reviewed elsewhere. I'm particularly looking forward to Charlie
Brooker's Screen Wipe of the Year. This is a more self-centred
review of the year.

## Wot I Done:

* MirageOS
* Grift
* Minimal Computing
* Minimal Audio
* OpenBSD
* Comics
* This Blog

## Writing and Notes

My first post described a writing system that I intended to follow
for the rest of the year. I followed it for one week.

However, it did form the basis for a new note keeping system that
has lasted. I now use Rhodia Dot pads that tear out easily. I can
then fill pages of notes which I later file into envelopes labeled
for various topics/projects. It isn't perfect - my ideas feel like
networks/graphs not hierarchies and I'm yet to find a tool/system
that accurately reflects this.

I started a couple of small projects. First was contributing to the
Minimal Computing Working Group. Discovering that others are
thinking about and discussing this topic inspired me to contribute
and clarify some of my opinions and get them down in writing. I
intend to continue this next year.

The other was to start drawing again. I've never been particularly
good at (or dedicated to) drawing and lost much of my enthusiasm for
it during a failed art A-Level. Still, new set of Copic pens and paper
resulted in a small highlight: the seal of approval from
Neighbour's Dr Karl Kennedy himself, Alan Fletcher.

## Equipment

I ditched OSX and the Macbook Pro and returned to Linux and
ThinkPad. Discovering the I3 Window Manager made the largest impact
on my work-flow. If you prefer a text-centric UI then I can highly
recommend i3.

I resurrected my ThinkPad X61s and installed OpenBSD. I'm only
scratching the surface but so far it seems like an OS I might
actually be able to understand at a lower level due to its minimalism.

## Computing

My public programming has also been pretty consistent, I've mucked
about with 20 repositories on GitHub this year. Played with some
new tools: x86 assembly, C, OCaml and OpenBSD being the highlights.

I've written more OCaml than any other language and can recommend
its environment, capabilities and community. My week in Marrakech
at the MirageOS Hackathon was the best computing related event I've
been involved with. I really enjoyed the informality and
conversational approach, if you've found conferences and seminars
haven't grabbed you then I recommend finding events in this vein.

I also started exploring Graph Theory and its applications, I
managed to start a small project in Swift 3 building and in-memory
Graph Engine that can persist as JSON. It felt like the start of
something, exactly what I don't know.

## Reading

* Cheap Novelties: The Pleasures of Urban Decay By Ben Katchor
* Writing That Sitcom By James Cary
* On the Move: A Life By Oliver Sacks
* Programming from the Ground Up
* Real World OCaml
* Mundial Magazine

## Conclusion

I've been quite depressed this year, mostly relating to a
frustration with a lack of "progress". Progress with what? Finding
a project that I can commit to and then working on it.

Writing this I realise that I have managed to do quite a lot of
exploration and experimentation. I had thought that I don't really
have enough time to get anything significant done, outside regular
work and family life. Adding it all up that doesn't appear to be
the case.

The work I have done has hopped subjects and media. If all of that
effort had been applied to one project then a good amount distance
could be covered.
